2026 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 September 2026
From The Stewards
To The Team Manager,
BWT Alpine F1 Team
Document 66
Date 26 September 2026
Time 19:29
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following
matter and determine the following:
No / Driver 43 - Franco Colapinto
Competitor BWT Alpine F1 Team
Time 16:11
Session Race
Fact Collision with Car 10 in Turn 1
Infringement Breach of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2 d) of the FIA International Sporting Code.
Decision 10 second time penalty converted to a drop of 5 grid positions at the next race in
which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards reviewed video, timing and in-car video evidence.
Following the restart, COL approached GAS from behind into Turn 1. COL braked too
late and entered the corner on the inside at a speed which did not allow him to make
the corner in a controlled manner. He overshot the corner and made contact with the
left-hand side of GAS, who then hit NOR and both cars retired.
The Stewards considered that COL was wholly or predominantly to blame for the
collision. Although the incident occurred at the first corner following the restart, there
was no contribution from another driver which would justify applying the first-lap / first-
corner more linient approach.
The standard penalty for causing a collision is a 10-second time penalty. As COL had
retired from the Race and was therefore unable to serve the time penalty, the
Stewards converted the penalty to a drop of 5 grid positions at the next Race in which
the driver participates in accordance which Article B1.9.6.(e) of the FIA FIA 2026 F1
Regulations.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 5 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
The Stewards
Gerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine
Khatuna Julakidze Derek Warwick
Danil Solomin