2026 ITALIAN GRAND PRIX
04 - 06 September 2026
From The Stewards
To The Team Manager,
McLaren Mastercard F1 Team
Document 47
Date 05 September 2026
Time 18:24
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 42 & 43)
and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and
determine the following:
No / Driver 81 - Oscar Piastri
Competitor McLaren Mastercard F1 Team
Time 16:38
Session Qualifying
Fact Car 81 impeded car 30 at turn 2.
Infringement Breach of Article B4.1.1 of the FIA F1 Regulations.
Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 81 (Oscar Piastri), the driver of Car 30
(Liam Lawson), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system
data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence.
On leaving the pits, the driver of Car 81 was advised that “Verstappen, Lawson and
Sainz just crossing, Sainz has pitted, Just Verstappen and Lawson, watch out for
them as you join”. The driver of Car 81 stated that he was not alerted to the fact that
VER and LAW were on push laps but realised as he was almost at turn 1 that VER
was on a push lap. He slowed significantly and kept to the right to allow VER to pass
but was unable to do anything to avoid impeding LAW who was close behind.
The Stewards accept that with the information he had, and the situation he was
placed in, the driver of Car 81 had, at this stage, no other options available and
hence, inadvertently, and also unnecessarily, impeded Car 30.
Therefore the standard penalty of a drop of 3 grid positions is imposed.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 5 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
The Stewards
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi Iacopo Arcangeli