2026 ITALIAN GRAND PRIX
04 - 06 September 2026
From The Stewards
To The Team Manager,
Visa Cash App Racing Bulls F1 Team
Document 69
Date 06 September 2026
Time 19:44
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 62) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 22 - Yuki Tsunoda
Competitor Visa Cash App Racing Bulls F1 Team
Time 15:41
Session Race
Fact An extra formation lap was commenced and it was a result of a decision by Race
Control based on the approach to, and position of, Car 22 on the grid.
Infringement Alleged breach of Article B5.9.4 of the FIA F1 Regulations.
Decision No further action.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 22 (Yuki Tsunoda), the team
representative, the FIA Race Director and the FIA Sporting Director of the Single
Seater Department, and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
Car 22 approached the grid initially heading for the left hand side of the grid, then
realising he was headed for the wrong grid position, the driver changed direction and
positioned his car in the correct grid box and in the correct position within the grid
box. This was verified by the Stewards with video from multiple camera angles.
The Race Director, in evidence, stated that it was his call, based on the behaviour of
the car on the approach to the grid box, to commence an extra formation lap. He
stated he was not comfortable starting the race with the car in that position.
The team representative stated that:
(i) The car was not in a “false start” position – referring to Article B5.1.1c of the F1
regulations, because no contact patch of the front tyres was outside the grid box lines
(front and side)
(ii) At the Drivers meeting, the Race Director advised that for the start, the track limits
were the pit walls and in this case, even though the car was pointed to the right, it had
at least 4 metres of space to move off from the start
(iii) No other driver was impacted by the position of Car 22
(iv) The driver of Car 22 was not the “cause” of the extra formation lap.
(v) At no time was the team advised that Race Control considered Car 22 to be the
cause of the extra formation lap.
The Stewards agree with the points above and consider that the extra formation lap
resulted from the Race Director’s assessment of the situation, rather than being
directly caused by the driver of Car 22.
The Stewards
Further, Article B5.9.4 goes on to specify that if a driver who causes the extra
formation lap and is then able to start the extra formation lap, he must enter the Pit
Lane at the end of the lap and start from the Pit Lane. It is only then, if the driver fails
to do this, that the mandatory penalty of a Stop and Go penalty is imposed.
In other words, the penalty is for failing to come into the Pit Lane and start from there.
The penalty is not for causing the extra formation lap, if indeed, he caused the extra
formation lap in the first place.
A critical issue emerges here, in that in order to comply with the requirement to enter
and start from the Pit Lane, a driver would need to know that he was the cause of the
extra formation lap. The team representative quoted situations where extra formation
laps have been commenced due to extraneous circumstances such as the position of
a photographer etc. In this case, no message was sent to the team or the driver,
advising them that they were the cause of the extra formation lap.
The team, based on the fact that the car was positioned within its starting grid box in
compliance with the regulations, had, in our determination, no reason to instruct its
driver to enter and start from the Pit Lane.
Accordingly, irrespective of whether or not the driver directly caused the extra
formation lap, the team and driver were unaware that they were being considered as
the cause, therefore we determine that we are unable to impose a Stop and Go
penalty in this case, and decide to take no further action.
We note that the Race Director acted in good faith and out of an abundance of
caution in ordering an extra formation lap.
We further note that the FIA might wish to consider implementing a process to advise
teams and drivers if they are considered to be the cause of an extra formation lap, so
that they are then able to comply with the requirements of Article B5.9.4
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
Chapter 5 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Garry Connelly Mathieu Remmerie
Vitantonio Liuzzi Iacopo Arcangeli