2026 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX
24 - 26 September 2026
From The Stewards
To The Team Manager,
Atlassian Williams F1 Team
Document 70
Date 26 September 2026
Time 19:53
The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 61) and
heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine
the following:
No / Driver 55 - Carlos Sainz
Competitor Atlassian Williams F1 Team
Time 16:43
Session Reconnaissance Laps
Fact Failure to follow Race Directors instruction.
Infringement Alleged breach of Article 12.2.1.i of the International Sporting Code and non-
compliance with Race Director’s Competition Note (item 13.6, document 56) –
Practice start infringement.
Decision Driver: Warning.
Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 55 (Carlos Sainz), team representative
and reviewed video and in-car video evidence.
During the reconnaissance laps, SAI approached the Pit Exit and did not intend to
perform a practice start. A car was waiting in the Pit Exit Road to perform a practice
start.
Paragraph 13.6 of the Race Director’s Competition Notes requires a car not wishing
to perform a practice start to cross the white line separating the Pit Exit Road from
the track at the earliest opportunity and join the normal racing line.
Instead, SAI remained within the Pit Exit Road and passed to the right of the car
waiting to perform practice start before joining the track. The Stewards therefore
determine that SAI failed to follow the Race Director’s instructions.
At the hearing, it was established that the Team had given SAI an incorrect instruction
as to how he should proceed in this situation, and that SAI acted in accordance with
that instruction. While the driver remains responsible for complying with the Race
Director’s instructions, the Stewards considered the incorrect information provided by
the Team to be a significant mitigating factor.
The Stewards considered comparable previous incidents, where a Driving Reprimand
had been applied for failing to follow the Race Director’s instructions during
reconnaissance laps. In the particular circumstances of this case, the Stewards
considered SAI’s personal responsibility to be reduced by the incorrect instruction
given to him by the Team and therefore considered a lesser penalty appropriate.
Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the
Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and
The Stewards
Chapter 5 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits.
Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely
on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented.
Gerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine
Khatuna Julakidze Derek Warwick
Danil Solomin